well I'm joined once more by Andy din
the owner and founder of TSM to talk a
little bit about some forward-looking
things I think Andy how have things been
going since the last time we spoke
things have been surprisingly great I
feel really good about this offseason I
mean after that I've been able to just
be more focused on just really
structuring things for next year and a
lot of it's just honestly just logistics
so feeling great like super excited for
the holidays and what are your holiday
plans I'm gonna be in Taiwan from the
22nd to the 1st and so I might like DFP
and me out there I'm not sure yet
just a couple meetings out there but for
the most part I haven't really taken a
vacation in a really long time you know
for years now and so this is gonna be
like a good break for me well hopefully
you'll be able to rest and relax a
little bit let's talk a little bit about
what's been going on so you've seen
several rosters get announced actually
even before we talked about that
I saw a picture that you posted with a
bunch of the owners yesterday where you
you hang out with these guys doing a
holiday party at white elephant gift
exchange what were you doing with the
owners well I mean since riot announced
the franchise rate there's like a lot of
new faces in the scene and I haven't had
the chance to me any of those guys face
to face yet only actually some of them
came out not even all of them came out
so that was kind of surprising but for
the most part it was this great
opportunity to meet those guys you kinda
want to know who your competitors are
and who you're gonna work with for the
long term right so it was just like a
sighting experience just got to meet
them for an hour - okay you guys just
had a chance to talk about what the next
year looks like yeah you know like
there's a lot to discuss right because
those guys come from the NBA and
traditional sports and it's really it's
it's good to have someone that you can
speak to you about those things because
if you look at eSports and traditional
sports obviously eSports is that at a
different point in its lifespan right
now and for me I thought of that meeting
was just a good learning experience to
be able to talk to people that's been
around media entertainment for a lot
longer than I have
and those guys are super smart super
experienced and
I mainly I went there to talk to them
about like hey how's it how's it running
a traditional sports team and then it's
kind of vice-versa like hey what do you
do any sports and so it's it's one of
those like you know meetings any
takeaways on what these guys are gonna
be able to bring to the league next year
takeaways I think that a lot of these
guys bring a ton of business experience
and expertise they know they know all
the advertisers in the space that invest
into eSports they know how to sell to
them and they know what they want and so
just being able to communicate with
advertisers at that level is gonna be
super valuable to the ecosystem overall
so it doesn't necessarily mean it's
gonna be like better for TSM
instantaneously but they're bringing in
higher level people and people that are
really smart and they're gonna help fix
a lot of issues that we run into today
yeah
do you think there's a lot of pressure
in 2018 for the league to start selling
more and to bring more sponsors in and
especially with all the investment
that's coming into the space I I think
absolutely right so there's a lot of
essent right now and I think
monetization is picking up even from
like a sponsor perspective sponsors are
growing advertisers are becoming more
bullish and even investors are becoming
more bullish because of that so it's
gonna take a quite a bit of time for the
market adjust itself but it's gonna get
there and by these guys entering the
space it's just kind of speed up that
process alright let's let's move on
because I believe all of the rosters
have been unveiled now and I am curious
what you think of all the different
rosters that we've seen one of the
things that's interesting to me is
you've been you and Steve have had some
strong words for each other and sort of
- up this rivalry but also you feel like
pretty confident TSM can beat Team
Liquid next year well I mean first off
right I've never really seen Team Liquid
as like a rival and I mean like a lot of
people gonna be like oh and he's firing
shots but realistically they haven't
really even been to neni LCS finals
right so I think it's more like me
bantering let's see because he's my
friend more so than me seeing him as a
rival
kind of mean but it's it's honestly the
harsh truth of things I think that the
roster they put together though could be
come a rival team though
so I'm saying like so far it's kind of
been like me just straight up beating on
Steve over and over and over now maybe
he's like coming to the game and he's
actually prepared and maybe he'll be
able to compete this time but what do
you what do you really think about Team
Liquid next year like are they gonna be
able to pull that off are they gonna is
there a threat there I mean are they are
they any kind of threat for TSM well I'm
not really sure if they're overhyped or
like under hype rate like cuz internally
there are a lot of great teams so I know
that we're talking about Team Liquid at
the moment but I think that team look
what's gonna come in strong and it's
gonna be very difficult for them to
differentiate themselves later in our
playoffs cuz if you look at the teams in
the na LCS
everyone thinks TSM is strong right and
we still have a lot to prove I know we
sent some anonymity but you know Mike
Young has a lot to prove I think that
from a TSM perspective going into next
season I think we're actually going to
struggle at the start and come in really
strong in playoffs and I think for Team
Liquid I think that they're gonna come
in really strong at the start and Peter
off and not do so well later on
primarily because right now like you
know if you look at TSM right we think
of as a chimera thon and we're looking
to see results like bye summer split and
so that's one of the reasons why I
wanted the guys to have more time off
and we're not starting practice until
you know like first week of January
whereas like other teams are now they're
going to Korea they're bootcamping
they're having their players been like
time right before Christmas and after
Christmas or even during Christmas in
Korea and I think that that might not be
the best way but those guys are going
for they're aiming to just only make
playoffs or not aiming to do well at
Worlds more or less so they don't
necessarily care about like burnout as
much as we would but sorry I've gotten a
little bit off topic I'm basically just
pointing to the fact that TL is putting
a lot of preparation in to do well
decided to split I think that they're
not going to do that well later on the
split I think that people are like
discounting other rosters - well
speaking of marathons
you're saying that you
looking at this long-term golden
Guardians is also saying that they're
looking at long-term with their roster
and their lineup which has been a little
controversial I'm very curious on your
take on the golden Guardians roster well
I mean huh so there's like two
approaches I can take a or I can comment
like I can take I can do the
shit-talking approach or like the
analytical approach I like the
shit-talking approach that's pretty good
okay so let's let's go with the
analytical approach first and then the
approach of like me making fun of them
and being unfiltered so the analytical
approach is like they did such a bad
like actually no they didn't do that
great of a job with their roster and so
they pretty much have to bet long-term
rate if you think about free agency a
lot of the teams that were experienced
or the lot of teams that took initiative
they were able to sound like core
players in talent to build their roster
around whereas I felt like the golden
Guardians they were really slow on
making decisions and they didn't really
have a player to build their roster
around so they just kind of put like
players together they kind of put like
hi together like as a shot-caller and
like for other players that are like
okay so I can like shock off from them
and they're aiming to like do decent but
I think it's gonna be really challenging
for them to do well in the long run and
the reason the reason why I mean that is
because one high players on a team the
reason why he generally does really
really well is because he's actually a
really good player at getting other
players around him to play well together
but the reason why he and he least in my
theory the reason why I thought fly
quested really bad later on was because
the the peak talent of the other rosters
Milt and ALC has had a higher ceiling
rate so high started off Shawn because
he was able to pull people together get
them on the same page and in the page
and they're able to play really well but
that only works for so long because once
a team that has a higher ceiling once
they're able to catch up in terms of
like teamwork coordination communication
they're ultimately gonna have a higher
ceiling and he's gonna be like Golden
Gardens is gonna get crushed at the same
time though I could be wrong and I think
that my quest is I mean not fly quest
sorry I think that golden Guardians is
gonna do well at the start and also not
do so well
I think that their only long-term play
is really to like build team synergy and
then replace players to be pillars in
the long run if you look at like the
golden Guardians I don't really see a
pillar player out of any of those
players right and what I mean by that is
like hi it's considered actually hi
could be a considered a pillar player
but having a pillar player as high in
the mid lane doesn't really necessarily
make that much sense because from like a
mechanic approach he's not one of the
best mechanical players but he's able to
pull people together I think from the
mid role perspective having a deep
talent like a deep champion pull and a
really strong mechanics is super
important and I think that he's gonna
have troubles with that in the future
yeah so if Guardian golden Guardians
makes like the right roster moves they
could very well like be a future team
like a strong like team in the future
but it's hard to see I think that they
probably did one of the worst in the off
season if I if I had to be sure at all
so they you worked on pretty good terms
with look at oka right you guys are
friends yeah of course
so he's the coach for this team do you
have anything that you would say to your
friend locodoco or anything about sort
of the decisions he made in building
this roster I mean it's really difficult
to tell based on the decision-making
right like all the reasons why rosters
are strong and / weak during this
offseason was due to like detail like
budgets how much you're willing to spend
et cetera so it's really difficult to
tell and at the same time - I have a
really strong opinion on this but I
could be wrong so it might be too early
to should talk but so conservative and
safe Andy okay fine like I'm fine you
want a strong answer like loco your
officers dude I hope you guys do
well but you guys are probably not gonna
do well I'll be surprised if you guys
win a couple games I'm just kidding I'm
just kidding I'm just cute so mean okay
there we go yeah so I mean who are all
your your fret your close friends with
Steve so you can make fun of him you're
friends with loco you can make fun of
him what about Jack are you guys still
chatting these days so you can you feel
fine making fun of the cloud9 roster
Chuck's Jack I'd like someone to me all
the time I'm finding put into them
well so then what do you think of the
cloud9 roster because a lot of people
are concerned about the new lineup I
feel like if I trash talk too much the
community's gonna roast me because they
don't know I'm trolling half the time
but uh so if you look at Jax roster I
think that he has he has like high
upside no downside and what I mean by
that is that like come on he hasn't even
made it and any I'll see a spot on Mike
forever and the last time we made it you
lost us right and so they can't like
they have to make changes you know what
I mean from like an impact perspective I
felt like impact I mean let's be real in
fact we're on good terms but you can
only play tanks you're pretty limited
there dude
and what I mean by that is like every
meta that okay that's not a tank medic a
cloud dad you're not gonna do so well no
but what I mean by that it's like it's
kind of good for cloud 9 to have a
long-term bet on the future for top
because the way I see cloud on TSM is
that we are even still G right we've
already had we've already had a domestic
success and now it's really about cloud
9 TSM CLG and like all these other
brands really pushing pushing their
limits on the international stage and I
think that for cloud 9 basic with impact
sure they can kept consistent placements
they can keep taking like second and
maybe contender first but unlikely
because we're gonna take first okay but
I think it's actually positive for cloud
nine because like if licorice does
really pay off well and you can play
tanks and carries then it could lead to
more international success and that's
ultimately what I want for our region
overall of course me wanting TSM to be
the one that does that but even if we're
not the ones to do that I'm still happy
for our region overall for jungle
getting spam he's a solid player I think
that first fan and smoothy they're gonna
have they're gonna work a lot better
than Hawk Haussmann worked at the bio so
the roster could be strong I think that
they can contend for the top three but
if licorice like falls on his face and
he's like just garbage then cloud 9 it's
gonna have struggled really hard so well
but most of cloud 9 team is like really
known factors you know what I mean and a
lot of people are disappointed about
like the contracts in spann I think that
trend is better than contracts to be
frank so it's really just about licorice
paying off
not and if I was cloud nine why not why
not like what I'm gonna do to take
second third fourth first again you know
they're gonna have to like do something
to make their roster way better or worse
but it's okay do you remember when Nick
Allen finds you for announcing a player
early yeah so now he runs a team called
CLG you have a chance to compete against
him what do you think of CLG and Nick
Allen running this team ha dude so this
is like a mid interview about me just
roasting everyone right and then like
and like when we lose everyone's in my
oh did you see that interview Reginald
trash-talking okay let's just roast him
- now I need I need a appeal I need a
appeal appeal that fine I still think
that final is unfair okay well you could
appeal it on the rift against CLG right
okay
honestly I think I think Macallan did a
great job a great job for his like as a
new GM right if you look at all the
other new teams that entered the space
come on dude they did such a crappy job
are you serious like look at Nick Allen
look at all these other GM's they gallon
do this guy had to build teams from
nowhere Nick Allen had basically a team
just sitting there for him right he
finds CLG and us so much they had enough
capital just sign all the top talent
that's a pretty good a statement ya know
so like let's look at their roster right
so what I'm concerned about for CLG is
like the shock calling proponent because
they lost out and out for me right but
if you look at it from like a pure
mechanics and play perspective bio frost
is better than after man the problem is
that he just like from a communication
standpoint has more experience he's put
a lot longer and he's able to be a true
leader versus I don't think frost is
ready to step up and be that big leader
of the team yet
so if sealed you can figure that out
they'll be so strong cuz look at how
strong they wore with like dar doc and
then they went to Omar God right and if
you look at their jungle reign over is
oh this is like I mean this is just my
opinion but I think we're going over is
a better player in the doc and a better
teammate and being a better teammate
means like being a better player also so
I think reignover is a complete upgrade
I think bow for us could be an upgrade
if they if they figure out communication
because ultimately you do need people on
your team to step up be a leader get
everyone together and play as a team
that's how you're gonna win like
championships and so CLG I think steal
G's rosters very scary like going into
next season I mean obviously I'm super
like like confident and it's really
important to be confident in your team
I'm I'm worried about CLG yep more so
than even like Team Liquid I think team
look it's gonna be strong at the start
Cena's gonna be strong on the sorry I
think I like CLG is one of the scarier
teams to to look out for their are they
gonna be really good or just they're
gonna be good no matter what but they're
gonna be really good or like third
fourth are you intimidated by having to
compete with Nick Allen on the business
front uh on the business front I mean
like he's not even working at riding
worst he can't find me necessarily so I
don't I don't know I haven't worked with
Nick enough from like a business
perspective to to like understand how
good he is but for the most part just
interacting with him he's really
professional well-spoken nice dude
outside of like showing me I'm excited
to work with the gallon I think he's got
to be a tough competitor from a
competitive standpoint at the moment all
right so you've trash talked to all
these different teams what if we do
something fun here where you pick like a
dark horse out of the other teams like
what who you know we've got echo fox
object clutch whoever else out there fly
quest what what are the what do you
think of these guys so you didn't
mention hundred thieves right I think
100 thieves did a really good job with
their roster this season to you I think
that not necessarily a dark horse
because they signed like really good
talent right they signed what someday
aphromoo I think that's like a high
mechanical team that is gonna have a
tough time like gelling together because
they have like reused someday after me
Cody Sun and who else who's their
jungler hundred thieves medias good
medias and Ryu remember on P one day
like had some bright moments yeah I'm
not sure right like I'm not I don't
really understand the community
sentiment as much because I haven't been
falling ready
there's too much flaming on there lately
so I'm just joking but
I have been following reddit sentiment
so I don't really know like what's like
who's considered bad on reddit and and
good honestly everyone is considered bad
and good for the most part because the
rosters are so crazy we saw such a huge
turnover I think a lot of people think
hundreds these could be a best team and
a lot of people think it's gonna be a
terrible team so so like what you're
looking for is like where do I think 100
things is gonna place in the sure or
just I mean out of 100 thieves or any of
the other teams like which one are you
do you think it a good job and do you
think has a pretty big chance of doing
well sounds like hundred leaves yeah I
think hundred thieves like so like just
started from a branding perspective I
think I can add shot and those guys did
a great job and now it's gonna team
they're gonna be really popular I'm
excited for the LCS because I felt like
for a long time there's just what we're
crappy teams and they'll see a thing and
do anything
so props to him I think that they also
did a good job with their roster tier
they're able to pull off remove from CLG
they're able to sign like pretty good
talent I think they're gonna be like
fourth fifth fourth fifth they're gonna
make playoffs and I think at all all the
rest it seems like that's like the only
notable one I think I mean who else like
comes to mind to you and you're like oh
that can put together a really good
roster I think out of all the new teams
like 100 of these put together a decent
one I mean clutch has febiven that's
interesting right okay who else do they
have they have two oldest clutch hair if
they have hakka Howe and Apollo no
because they have Lyra Hakka ho Apollo
febiven and then solo and the top lane
yes if you look at their roster right
there's like there's like no up up and
coming talent that's like a super badass
just like not like any superstars that
they signed I mean they're they're just
exist to get stalled no joking I'm
really not joking
no they're there to just they're there
to take a beating by all other teams not
just lost not yeah I don't think there's
just that good to be honest with you
yeah okay fair enough no no I mean so
then there's also optic power
evil his team elimination arrow who else
on that team so hard to keep them like
every single roster changed this split
so but yeah I mean there's that line up
so that roster I think will do okay the
reason why I'm in front of clutch is cuz
I know like Sebastian right he knows I'm
a troll I don't really want to trash
object that much so I'm not like a
joking term with off dick but the roster
just okay I mean like gotta be neutral
to guys you don't know they're just okay
they're not they're not like they're not
gonna go and I'm not like if I were to
play table take out players I'm not
gonna like oh guy it's like I'm like
really nervous for this match I was
playing CLG hundred thieves I'd be like
okay guys like holy crap there's a
there's a really like a 40% chance of us
losing if I was playing optic I play
outside be like guys there's like a
there's like a three percent chance of
us losing yeah flight quest has
wildturtle on it your boy wildturtle
what do you that yeah what do you think
of flight quest okay fine I mean I
trashed my I try to talk my home voice
all the time my boy turtles roster it's
that turtle stunt on de fly and flame
flame on okay got it
okay start coming over alright so strong
opinion right yeah I don't think rabid
stars gonna do that much for them okay
not I mean he's on sqt no but the thing
is that like yep
having a strong coaches in porn but you
also need a strong leader on the team
and I I don't I think that they have
some veteran players but I don't think
that they're gonna have that that
veteran player to just really step up
and pull everyone together yeah but yeah
I don't sit down for fly quest I see
some veteran players stepping up in
terms of mechanical play but I don't of
motion level I don't see that I don't
see that they're gonna do that I need
that I think it's gonna be it's gonna be
like so you look at TSM steel G cloud
nine liquid has to say like top 400
thieves and then who else is gonna be in
their fight what's its they're they're
either gonna make playoffs but barely
make playoffs or not make it
there there are team that'd like it he's
gonna struggle to make playoffs and they
and they have the ability to make it
yeah so we've talked about every team
now right I think I've no I don't think
we've forgotten any oh yeah echo fox
so echo fox maybe has one of the more
controversial rosters and I don't I'm
trying to think if there's anybody on
that team that I can say you have
permission to trash-talk because you're
friends with them well I can't think of
anybody so what do you think of that oh
yeah so I mean they're all tech and
Adrian oh I'll take an Adrian out I'm on
good terms if I can trash talk though
yeah so what do you yeah so what do you
think of that because they've also got
da rock and honey so it's gonna be a
pretty explosive roster dude they have
like definitely a young team like Adrian
Alltech dar doc I mean I think and he's
like pre relaxed who's their mid laner
okay anyways I I think like echo fox is
also gonna be like potentially making
playoffs but like they have a lower
chance than other teams like then then
flike what's the stuff like that but I
think that it's gonna be it's gonna be
close between them and act and then fly
West because like if you think about the
about the meta right Cooney would be
probably really good I got table and
carry meta but and I can see him and dar
doc like really crushing table when
super hard but if it's like not a carry
top lane focused man I don't like it's
it's gotta be really hard for them to to
win right so you think about it and an
eighty focused meta and just say turtle
is the other party that can step up and
an eighty focus meta that means he needs
to play really good at that means it's
gonna be up to the mid lane and ad carry
to to play really well and it's gonna be
up to the tank right I don't really know
who their mid laners so it's hard for me
to tell but I don't think they're gonna
do super well because who knees not
super good at tanks and they're gonna
rely on their backline but their mid
lanes not super experienced that they're
relying on their toplin to be a carry
it's just playing only to one side of
the map you can get I'm saying yeah so
they helped they didn't build a roster
in like a really thoughtful balanced way
so I think that they're gonna struggle
but it's you know it's it's hard to tell
because it's gonna be best someone's
next year
it's a new meta and that's why I'm kind
of concerned for TSM to start to because
we're gonna really need time to gel yeah
Mike Young is in like a really big
position that proved himself he is the
jungler we're gonna work with him a lot
you know and we're gonna give him time
yeah so what people don't know is that
after every time I do an interview with
Andy especially anyone where he makes
fun of anybody he hits me up afterwards
before it goes live and says was I too
mean is the community gonna hate me or
whatever so I mean here's your chance
you could explain like you're you're
mostly just having fun here right yeah
you know I think I think even like for
me right like when I'm trash-talking was
these people even on like Twitter or
social media I suppose it's mainly just
to like jab at my friends or to joke
around and I think that like even like
if you look at the NA LCS most
interviews and the LCS are super boring
yeah alright so for any of mine yeah but
yeah but most knows most interviews are
like things that are controversial are
generally exciting right but what really
sucks about like the community
perspective is that you trash talk just
for fun and then it gets quoted for like
two or three years you know that's why I
like when like players or interviewers
or whoever personalities they try to
like be entertaining and just talk
things up and get hyped about it they
get quoted like constantly that's why
most people refrain from doing it and so
I mean I think that like overall people
just seem to be more relaxed about this
yeah and just have a fun time with it
yeah but no hard feelings you know I
made a lot of jokes some I meant like
pretty pretty confident that we're gonna
do well in xsplit but they're they're
gonna be strong rivalries next super
excited we're plugging teamliquid the
first play there's gonna be a lot of
rivalries there and you know I think I
think we're gonna do well I think I
think it's gonna be super fun season and
thanks Travis for this interview is
great yeah thank you for the interview
for everyone else you can check out the
rest of my coverage of all things
eSports right here on my youtube channel
I want to introduce you to my cameraman
Broden come over here come over here
so for the most part since I ended my
Yahoo eSports career oh you need to get
over okay cool so and then you need to
crouch yeah okay yeah is this better now
we're out of focus right we're out of
focus okay well either way since I ended
my career at Yahoo Broden from the most
part a couple other people have helped
out but Provins been doing this
virtually for free at the LCS so if
you'd like to help support some of that
money will eventually maybe kind of make
its way over to Broden you can do so
over at Travis CARICOM slash support
what do you have to say for yourself
written virtually nothing makes it into
these pockets but you could change that
Travis gavrok op slash support